The Dann Wine Closet Part 1. You're looking
at a photograph of the completed Dann wine
closet. This is a custom wine cellars Dallas
Texas project that we completed that used
to be a pantry of the kitchen.
We're going to begin by showing you the drawings.
This is the overhead or plan view. Each elevation
is designated by a letter: elevation A to
the left, B to the back, C also to the back
and elevation D to the right.
You can see that this wine cellar should hold
496 bottles. Upon completion Mr. Dann was
actually able to fit 514 bottles in this wine
closet.
Elevation A, the left wall, is a waterfall
rack. This pantry is under the staircase so
there is a slanted ceiling on the left side.
So we follow the line of the ceiling with
the wine racks. These are all 750 bottle wine
storage.
What you're seeing here is a support rack
for the back of the wine closet where the
double deep section comes out and this is
just to support the other racks above which
are not visible. You'll notice that the racking
is 13 1/2 inches deep, it has 1 1/2 inch toe
kick and base molding and we have 2 1/4 inch
crown molding at the top.
Elevation B, the back wall, is a double deep
X-bin storage. It is a solid storage with
a horizontal rack above. Here is where your
horizontal display rack shows your bottles;
they are actually 3 deep in these racks, a
little table top so that Mr. Dann can set
his bottle there when storing his bottles
or choosing one for the evening.
Elevation C is also a back wall. This section
here is where the ceiling is still slanting.
Here we have a straight up ceiling area. This
is cut out where your grill cover and box
comes out from the right wall; and again you
can see we have a 13 1/2 inch rack depth.
Here we have a display row, a high reveal
display row where Mr. Dann can display some
of his bottles.
Elevation D is the right wall. This is six-inch
deep rack because the doorway comes quite
close to this wall. These are the horizontal
display racks going all the way up and a large
grill cover and box.
The grill cover and box is much larger than
usual because of the way we have to run the
lines for this cellar. The drain line could
not go straight down to the drain with the
gravitational flow so we have to add a condensation
pump below the cooling unit to pump the condensation
up before it could run down.
This is an overhead view of the custom wine
cellars Dallas Texas showing where the doorway
is, your horizontal racks here, the grill
cover and box, individual racks on the left
and the back and the table top and the horizontal
racking on the back. This shows looking in
from the front; this is looking in from the
front as well, what the racks look like. These
are just some 3D views showing the racking
here and this is looking out and if there
were no roofs looking at the back going in.
I hope you've enjoyed looking at the drawings
for the Dann Wine Cellar. In the next video
I'm going to show you photos of the Wine Cellar
Builders Dallas Texas project before, during
and after. Click on the second video to continue.